---
title: INAV Configurator
slug: inavconfigurator
sidebar_position: 5
---

## Tabs Explained

The Configurator contains a number of tabs that allow you to configure different aspects of the firmware for your use case. 
There are two main parts of the configurator: Home View and Configuration View.
- Home View: Opens with the Welcome Page and consists of a small set of tabs when INAV Configurator is first opened. 
- Configuration View: Is what appears when connected to a flight controller. Here is where all the settings for a particular aircraft are made and programmed.

The tabs for each view are outlined in the tables below with brief explainations of what each tab contains.

### Home View

| Tab | Description |
| :---: | :--------: |
| Welcome | Is the home page greeting you to INAV |
| Documentation & Support | Links to the official docs website |
| Mission Control | Allows for the creation of waypoint missions |
| Firmware Flasher | Flash firmware onto a flight controller |
| SITL | Software In The Loop mode for simulating an INAV device |

### Configuration View

Detailed explainations are found in the linked section in the **Modules** section.

| Tab | Description | Applicable Modules |
| :---: | :-------- | :--------------: |
| Status | Displays a 3D model of hte vehicle that reacts to changes in the FC's orientation. The columns on the left show sensor, battery, and GNSS/GPS information | |
| Calibration | Where accelerometer, compass, and optical flow/rangefinder sensors are calibrated. This is mandatory for setup. | |
| Mixer | | |
| Outputs | | |
| Ports | | |
| Configuration | | |
| Failsafe | | |
| Tuning | | |
| Advanced Tuning | | |
| Programming | | |
| Receiver | | |
| Modes | | |
| Adjustements | | |
| GPS | | |
| Alignment Tool | | |
| Mission Control | | |
| OSD | | |
| LED Strip | | |
| Sensors | | |
| Tethered Logging | | |
| Blackbox | | |
| CLI | | |
| Search | | |

## Different map providers

INAV Configurator 2.1 allows you to choose between OpenStreetMap, Bing Maps (Aerial View), and MapProxy map providers.
INAV Configurator is shipped **WITHOUT** API key for Bing Maps. That means: every user who wants to use Bing Maps has to create their own account, agree to all _Terms and Conditions_ required by Bing Maps, and configure INAV Configurator by himself.

### How to choose a Map provider

1. Click **Settings** icon in the top-right corner of INAV Configurator
1. Choose a provider: OpenStreetMap, Bing, or MapProxy
1. In the case of Bing Maps, you have to provide your own, personal, generated by you, Bing Maps API key
1. For MapProxy, you need to provide a server URL and layer name to be used

### How to get the Bing Maps API key

> On May 21, 2024 Microsoft announced that Bing Maps for Enterprise is deprecated and will be retired. Starting from that date
> new users are unable to get api keys in Bing Maps Dev Center. 
> 
> Enterprise account customers can continue to use Bing Maps for Enterprise services until **June 30th, 2028**.
> 
> Free (Basic) account customers can continue to use Bing Maps for Enterprise services until **June 30th, 2025**.

1. Go to the Bing Maps Dev Center at [https://www.bingmapsportal.com/](https://www.bingmapsportal.com/).
    * If you have a Bing Maps account, sign in with the Microsoft account that you used to create the account or create a new one. For new accounts, follow the instructions in [Creating a Bing Maps Account](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/gg650598.aspx).
1. Select **My keys** under **My Account**.
1. Select the option to create a new key.
1. Provide the following information to create a key:
    1. Application name: Required. The name of the application.
    1. Application URL: The URL of the application. This is an optional field that is useful in helping you remember the purpose of that key in the future.
    1. Key type: Required. Select the key type that you want to create. You can find descriptions of key and application types here.
    1. Application type: Required. Select the application type that best represents the application that will use this key. You can find descriptions of key and application types [here](https://www.microsoft.com/maps/create-a-bing-maps-key.aspx).
1. Click the **Create** button. The new key is displayed in the list of available keys. Use this key to authenticate your Bing Maps application as described in the documentation for the Bing Maps API you are using.

### How to set up a MapProxy server for offline caching and mission planning
1. Follow the process described in MAPPROXY.md
1. Test your MapProxy server in a web browser, eg: http://192.168.145.20/inavmapproxy/
1. Once you have a working MapProxy server choose MapProxy as your map provider
	1. Enter MapProxy service URL, eg: http://192.168.145.20/inavmapproxy/service?
	1. Enter MapProxy service layer (inav_layer if configured from MAPPROXY.md)
1. Once completed, you can zoom in on the area you will be flying in while connected to the internet in either the GPS or Mission Control tab to save the cache for offline use

## Font Customisation

INAV provides the font images so that custom fonts can be created for your personal preference. This is the case for both analogue and digital fonts. The resources can be found in the [osd](/resources/osd) folder. Within the **analogue** and **digital** subfolders, you will find information on compiling your own fonts. There is also an inav character map document. This contains previews of all the character images in the fonts and the appropriate variable names within the firmware and Configurator. There are tools for compiling the [analogue](https://github.com/fiam/max7456tool) and [digital](https://github.com/MrD-RC/hdosd-font-tool) fonts. New font submissions via pull requests are welcome.

## Notes

### WebGL

Make sure Settings -> System -> "User hardware acceleration when available" is checked to achieve the best performance

## Issue trackers

For INAV configurator issues raise them here

https://github.com/iNavFlight/inav-configurator/issues

For INAV firmware issues, raise them here

https://github.com/iNavFlight/inav/issues

## Developers

We accept clean and reasonable patches, submit them!